---
hide:
    - navigation
---

# About

## About Me

<div class="center">
	<img src="https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Misc/nicklyss.jpg" title="Monterey, CA 2019" alt="Nick & Alyssa" width="25%" height ="25%" style ="border-radius: 20px; box-shadow: 0 4px 8px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2), 0 6px 20px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.19);">
	<img src="https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Misc/alaska.jpg" title="Juneau, AK 2018" alt="Nick & Alyssa" width="28%" height ="28%" style ="border-radius: 20px; box-shadow: 0 4px 8px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2), 0 6px 20px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.19);">
	<img src="https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Misc/pup.jpg" title="Dani!" alt="Nick & Alyssa" width="36.5%" height ="36.5%" style ="border-radius: 20px; box-shadow: 0 4px 8px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2), 0 6px 20px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.19);">  
</div>

Hello! I am currently a software engineer with Erias Ventures. I have been
working within the Intelligence Community for over 7 years and have a great
amount of experience in intelligence analysis and national security systems. I
was also in the Marine Corps as an ELINT/All Source Analyst! I received my
Bachelor's degree in Computer Networking and Cybersecurity in 2020 and my
Master's in Software Engineering in 2023, both from the University of Maryland.
I enjoy frontend development, especially working with JavaScript and web
application frameworks. If you have any questions, please ask!

Creating robust and easy-to-understand documentation is what I do best. While
teaching myself to program, along with my daily work as a technical writer, I
have learned how important well written documentation is! Being able to convey a
message to a wide-range of people is more difficult than you would think. Making
sure you are writing at a level and tone that makes it so the most basic users
can understand, while not insulting the advanced users' intelligence, can be
quite the challenge. I created this docs website for my programming notes and
random projects. I also have a blog that I update sporadically, which can be
found [here](https://blog.nicklyss.com).

## Random Projects

<style type="text/css">
	.center{
		text-align: center;
	}
</style>

###TriviaDart

<a href="https://triviadart.com">TriviaDart</a> is a simple Trivia web
application that utilizes both the Open Trivia DB and The Trivia API, which both
offer generous free API usage. TriviaDart also has an in-house API that has over
45,000 trivia questions. Currently, there are no options available for these
questions, but this will be added in the future. The in-house API utilizes
Supabase.

###Soccerfront.io

<a href="https://soccerfront.io">Soccerfront.io</a> is a soccer live score web
application built using Nodejs, ExpressJS, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
Soccerfront pulls data from the API-FOOTBALL API and displays the information in
an easy-to-use live score table and league table (standings) view. Currently,
over 20 leagues/cups are supported! This is an ongoing project and new features
will be added sporadically. Hosted on a DigitalOcean droplet running Linux and
NGINX.

### Custom Keyboard Builds

Below are some keyboards I have built!

??? tip "Custom Keyboards"

    <p class="center">**KeyChron K2 Pro - Milky Yellows**</p>
    <img src="https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Misc/Keyboards/keycron-milky-yellows.png" style="border-radius: 10px;">

    <p class="center">**Glorious Pro - Silks**</p>
    <img src="https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Misc/Keyboards/glorious-pro-silks.png" style="border-radius: 10px;">

    <p class="center">**Akrylic - Black Inks**</p>
    <img src="https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Misc/Keyboards/akrylic-blackinks.png" style="border-radius: 10px;">

    <p class="center">**Canon Keys Devastating TKL**</p>
    <img src="https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Misc/Keyboards/canonkeys-devastatingtkl.png" style="border-radius: 10px;">

    <p class="center">**Canon Keys Satisfaction R2**</p>
    <img src="https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Misc/Keyboards/canonkeys-satisfaction-r2.png" style="border-radius: 10px;">

    <p class="center">**Canon Keys Obliterated**</p>
    <img src="https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Misc/Keyboards/canonkeys-obliterated.png" style="border-radius: 10px;">

    <p class="center">**Canoe PC - Gateron Ink Yellow**</p><img src="https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Misc/Keyboards/canoe.png" style ="border-radius: 10px;">

    <p class="center">**Custom Acrylic - Gateron Ink Blacks</p>**<img src="https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Misc/Keyboards/acrylic.png" style ="border-radius: 10px;">

    <p class="center">**TX-87 - CÂ³Equalz X TKC Banana Splits</p>**<img src="https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Misc/Keyboards/tx-1.png" style ="border-radius: 10px;">

    <p class="center">**Satisfaction 75 - Zealios V2**</p><img src="https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Misc/Keyboards/satisfaction.png" style ="border-radius: 10px;">

    <p class="center">**K75 - Gateron Ink Blacks**</p><img src="https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Misc/Keyboards/k75.jpg" style ="border-radius: 10px;">

    <p class="center">**Canon Keys Devastating TKL - Tealios**</p><img src="https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Misc/Keyboards/imageedit_3_6470813349.png" style ="border-radius: 10px;">

    <p class="center">**Mysterium - Kailh Purple Pro**</p><img src="https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Misc/Keyboards/mysterium.png" style ="border-radius: 10px;">

## Contact

Nicholas Platt  
nickplatt4@gmail.com  
(909)224-4200  
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nicholas-platt/)

<script>
    lightGallery(document.getElementById('lightgallery'));
</script>
