Below is a list of key words and their definitions:
  
* **Bookmark** - A bookmark is a saved shortcut that directs your browser to a specific webpage. It stores the title, URL, and favicon of the corresponding page. Saving bookmarks allows you to easily access your favorite locations on the Web.  
* **Browser** - Software programs that enable you to view web pages and other documents on the Internet. They "translate" HTML-encoded files into the text, images, sounds, and other features you see. Google Chrome is a browser.  
* **Cache** - In browsers, "cache" is used to identify a space where web pages you have visited are stored in your computer. A copy of documents you retrieve is stored in cache. When you use GO, BACK, or any other means to revisit a document, the browser first checks to see if it is in cache and will retrieve it from there because it is much faster than retrieving it from the server.  
* **Cookie** - An HTTP cookie is a small piece of data sent from a website and stored on the user's computer by the user's web browser while the user is browsing. Cookies were designed to be a reliable mechanism for websites to remember stateful information or to record the user's browsing activity.  
* **Extension** - Extensions are small software programs that customize the browsing experience. They enable users to tailor Chrome functionality and behavior to individual needs or preferences. They are built on web technologies such as HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  
* **HTML** - HTML stands for Hyper Text Markup Language. HTML is the standard markup language for Web pages, which are the building blocks of most web pages.  
* **Link** - A link (short for hyperlink) is an HTML object that allows you to jump to a new location when you click or tap it. Links are found on almost every webpage and provide a simple means of navigating between pages on the web. Links can be attached to text, images, or other HTML elements.  
* **URL** - URL stands for Uniform Resource Locator. A URL is nothing more than the address of a given unique resource on the Web (e.g. website, page, or file). In theory, each valid URL points to a unique resource.  