# Higher-Order Functions

## Introduction

We are often unaware of the number of assumptions we make when we communicate
with other people in our native languages. If we told you to "count to three",
we would expect you to say or think the numbers one, two, and three. We assumed
you would know to start with "one" and end with "three". With programming, we're
faced with needing to be more explicit with our directions to the computer.
Here's how we might tell the computer to "count to three":

```js linenums='1'
for (let i = 1; i <= 3; i++) {
    console.log(i);
}
```

When we speak to other humans, we share a vocabulary that gives us quick ways to
communicate complicated concepts. When we say "bake", it calls to mind a
familiar subroutine - preheating an oven, putting something into the oven for a
set amount of time, and finally removing it. This allows us to _abstract_ away a
lot of the details and communicate key concepts more concisely. Instead of
listing all of those details, we can say, "We baked a cake", and still impart
all that meaning to you.

In programming, we can accomplish _abstraction_ by writing functions. In
addition to allowing us to reuse our code, functions help to make clear,
readable programs. If you encountered `countToThree()` in a program, you might
be able to quickly guess what the function did without having to stop and read
the function's body.

There is another way to add a level of abstraction to our programming:
_higher-order functions_. _Higher-order functions_ are functions that accept
other functions as arguments and/or return functions as output. This enables us
to build abstractions on other abstractions, just like "We hosted a birthday
party" is an abstraction that may build on the abstractions "We made a cake".

## Functions as Data

JS functions behave like any other data type in the language; we can assign
functions to variables, and we can reassign them to new variables.

Below, we have an annoyingly long function name that hurts the readability of
any code in which it's used. Let's pretend this function does important work and
needs to be called repeatedly!

```js linenums='1'
const announceThatIAmDoingImportantWork = () => {
    console.log("I'm doing very important work!");
};
```

What if we wanted to rename this function without sacrificing the source code?
We can re-assign the function to a variable with a suitably short name:

```js linenums='1'
const busy = announceThatIAmDoingImportantWork;

busy(); // This function call barely takes up any space!
```

`busy` is a variable that holds a _reference_ to our original function. If we
could look up the address in memory of `busy` and the address in memory of
`announceThatIAmDoingImportantWork` they would point to the same place. Our new
`busy()` function can be invoked with parenthesis as if that was the name we
originally gave our function.

Notice how we assign `announceThatIAmDoingImportantWork` without parentheses as
the value to the `busy` variable. We want to assign the value of the function
itself, not the value that it returns when invoked.

In JS, functions are _first class objects_, which means that, like other methods
we have encountered, JS functions can have properties and methods.

Since functions are a type of object, they have properties such as `.length` and
`.name` and methods such as `.toString()`. You can see more about the methods
and properties of functions in the following
[documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function).

Functions are special because we can invoke them, but we can still treat them
like any other type of data.

## Functions as Parameters

Since functions can behave like any other type of data in JS, it might not
surprise you to learn that we can also pass functions (into other functions) as
parameters. A _higher-order function_ is a function that either accepts
functions as parameters, returns a function, or both! We call the functions that
get passed in as parameters and invoked _callback functions_ because they get
called during the execution of the higher-order function.

When we pass a function in as an argument to another function, we don't invoke
it. Invoking the function would evaluate to the return value of that function
call. With callbacks, we pass the function itself by typing the function name
_without_ the parentheses (that would evaluate to the result of the function
called):

```js linenums='1'
const timeFuncRuntime = funcParameter => {
  let t1 = Date.now();
  funcParameter();
  let t2 Date.now();
  return t2 - t1;
}

const addOneToOne = () => 1 + 1;

timeFuncRuntime(addOneToOne);
```

We wrote a higher-order function, `timeFuncRuntime()`. It takes in a function as
an argument, saves a starting time, invokes the callback function, records the
time after the function was called, and returns the time the function took to
run by subtracting the starting time from the ending time.

This higher-order function could be used with any callback function which makes
it a potentially powerful piece of code.

We then invoked `timeFuncRuntime()` first with the `addOneToOne()` function -
note how we passed in the `addOneToOne` and did not invoke it.

```js linenums='1'
timeFuncRuntime(() => {
    for (let i = 10; i > 0; i--) {
        console.log(i);
    }
});
```

In this example, we invoked `timeFuncRuntime()` with an anonymous function that
counts backwards from 10. Anonymous functions can be arguments too!

## Quick Review

-   Abstraction allows us to write complicated code in a way thatâ€™s easy to
    reuse, debug, and understand for human readers

-   We can work with functions the same way we would any other type of data
    including reassigning them to new variables

-   JavaScript functions are first-class objects, so they have properties and
    methods like any object

-   Functions can be passed into other functions as parameters

-   A higher-order function is a function that either accepts functions as
    parameters, returns a function, or both
