# Tic-Tac-Toe Explained

## Rules

Tic-Tac-Toe is a classic two-player game where the object is to get three of
your marks in a row. Both players need to choose their mark - either an ‘X’ or
an ‘O’ before the game begins. Players can win the game by getting three of
their marks in a row horizontally, vertically, or diagonally. The game grid is
created by drawing two vertical lines intersected by two horizontal lines,
roughly of equal spacing, which should create a 3x3 grid. The game grid should
resemble the following image:

![!Game Grid & Play Marks](https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Docs/grid.png)

Players will alternate turns, starting with ‘X’, by putting their mark in any
open square. If no player is able to get three of their marks in a row and no
spaces are left, the game is considered a tie. Below is an example of a winning
game and a tie game:

![!Game Examples](https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Docs/game-examples.png)

As you can see above in the game on the left, ‘X’ was able to put three of their
marks in a row horizontally (marked with yellow line), which resulted in a win.
On the right, no player was able to get three of their marks in a row, which
resulted in a tie game.

## Strategy

Tic-Tac-Toe may seem like a very simple game but making a good start and
thinking ahead can lead to a win! Players who start the game are given a major
advantage because they are able to choose anywhere on the board to play. The
best method for the starting player is to play their ‘X’ into any of the four
corners. If the other player (‘O’) does not play their first move into the
center, ‘X’ is almost guaranteed to win. If the second player does play in the
middle, the game is almost guaranteed to be a tie, unless they make a mistake.

If you do not start the game, the main goal is to force a tie. If the starting
player plays their ‘X’ into the middle square, play your ‘O’ into any corner
square and force a tie! If the starting player plays their ‘X’ into a corner,
play your ‘O’ into the middle square to remove the possibility for ‘X’ to get a
diagonal win.

## Conclusion

Tic-Tac-Toe is a timeless, simple, and quick game that can be played by children
as young as three years old. If both players are knowledgeable in the game, it
will almost always result in a tie. One great advantage of Tic-Tac-Toe is that
it can be played almost anywhere, from pencil and paper, sand at the beach,
computer, and mobile applications, etc. Google offers a quick and easy way to
play Tic-Tac-Toe by simply searching,
“[tic tac toe](https://www.google.com/search?q=tic+tac+toe)”. You can choose
your difficulty (East, Medium, Impossible, or Play against a friend) and play
against a computer or someone that also has access to your device. Have fun!

![!Google Tic-Tac-Toe!](https://cdn.nickplatt.dev/files/Docs/google.png)
